+++
#
# created by build_publications.py
#
title = "Temporal and spatial variations of aerosol optical properties over the Korean peninsula during KORUS-AQ"
date = "2021-03-01T00:00:00"
authors = ["Yongjoo Choi", "Young Sung Ghim", "Michal Segal Rozenhaimer", "Jens Redemann", "Samuel E. LeBlanc", "Connor J. Flynn", "Roy J. Johnson", "Yonghwan Lee", "Taehyoung Lee", "Taehyun Park", "Joshua P. Schwarz", "Kara D. Lamb", "Anne E. Perring"]
publication_types = ["2"]
publication = "in *Atmospheric Environment*"
abstract = "We investigated the temporal and spatial variations of aerosol optical properties over the Korean peninsula during the KORUS-AQ (KORea–United States Air Quality) experiment with ground-based aerosol optical properties measured by remote and in-situ techniques. On the ground, AErosol RObotic NETwork (AERONET) and ground-level particulate matter (PM) concentration from air quality monitoring stations were used. From the NASA DC-8 research aircraft, the airborne Spectrometer for Sky-Scanning, Sun-Tracking Atmospheric Research instrument (4STAR), an aerosol mass spectrometer (AMS), and a single particle soot photometer (SP2) provided aerosol information. Average hourly fine- and coarse-mode aerosol optical depth (AOD) and fine mode fraction (FMF), were divided into four clusters (background, Seoul Metropolitan Area (SMA), southwest, and east) representing different temporal/spatial variations; the results of those clusters were similar to the clustering results using PM from air quality monitoring stations. The downwind region of SMA was dominant by light-scattering fine-mode aerosols likely due to secondary aerosol formation with high fine-mode AOD and single scattering albedo compared to other regions, even Seoul. The fine-mode aerosols were more spatially homogeneous than coarse-mode aerosols, especially in the west-to-east direction, because fine-mode aerosols are usually transported on a regional scale by westerlies rather than emitted from local emission sources. However, the aerosol size distribution was spatially more homogeneous because of a consistent contribution of fine- and coarse-mode AOD to total AOD regardless of direction between the AERONET sites. During high-aerosol loading episodes, the temporal and spatial variations of aerosol optical properties were similar to those derived from 4STAR and ground-level PM concentrations, providing detailed information on aerosol behavior and characteristics. Using missed-approach flight segments (touchdown and take-off without a full-stop), investigation of diurnal variations over the SMA revealed a significant increase in AOD and Angstrom exponent (AE) in the afternoon compared to morning and noon, especially in the downwind region, because of more active secondary formation resulting from advected and/or emitted local pollutants and precursors. The diurnal variation of PM1 in the downwind region was similar to that of AOD; it was mainly increased during the day by secondary organic aerosols and ammonium nitrate due to large amounts of isoprene and meteorological conditions that supported secondary aerosol formation. Ammonium sulfate also partially led to increasing the PM1, but its behavior was unclear, because RH decreased during the day, which would imply the reduced aqueous-phase oxidation (the major pathway for sulfate production). Compared to the downwind region, ammonium nitrate and refractory black carbon decreased in Seoul because of a slightly decreased traffic volume, dissociation of ammonium nitrate, and increased boundary layer height according to meteorological conditions in the afternoon. The results of this study provide detailed information on aerosol behavior given the synergy of the various measurement platforms used. Along with the evidence of active photochemical reactions taking place in the downwind region, such data will be useful in formulating policies that improve air quality in Korea."
featured = false
projects = []
tags = []
url_pdf = "https://doi.org/https://doi.org/10.1016/j.atmosenv.2021.118301"
doi = "https://doi.org/10.1016/j.atmosenv.2021.118301"
math = true
+++
